---
layout: post
title: What even is a window manager?
---

Someone i know had left a .txt file on my computer with only three words in it. 

xmonad
stumpwm
dwm

i had no idea what these meant but after some research i learned these things are called window managers. I wanted to try and install these because i guessed it would be a fun learning experience.

so, after a while of browsing around i decided to go ahead and give dwm (dynamic window manager) a chance.

Why dwm though?

it is written in C so it should be convenient with ceng140.I guessed i would want to mess around with the source code to customize&configure the thing. having a bit of C knowledge and diving into a sea of (what i assume to be) professional C code sounds like it would really push my limits. and it kindof did.

have i told you that the way to configure dwm is to change the source code directly and recompile? it sure sounds like a hell lot of fun. also a very painful learning experience. but i like suffering anyway, disco inferno, forza adana (ew ew)

so what i did was pretty straightforward, but eh, here's a blog post/tutorial/thing.

i just downloaded the source code for dwm, compiled it and put it where it is supposed to be.

"where it is supposed to be" means /usr/local/bin

the command ``$ make clear install`` does the job when run in the directory you downloaded and unpacked dwm.


after installation i assumed i was done since installation was over. well guess what? yep. not done. 
i had to create an xsession file and put some commands in it. Why did i do that?

first off my background wasn't remembered between sessions before this file. This file is the file where you put the commands that you want to run every time you start your system. 

i have 4 lines in my .xsession file. let's have a look at them and see what each of them do.


``
feh --bg-scale backgrnd.png
``

what this command does is it sets backgrnd.png as the backround, scaling it to fullscreen. What this command doesn't do is remembering your preferred background. it doesn't sae anything to anywhere, how would you expect it to remember anything?

but being a windows user for quite the time leaves you expecting computers to do things that you didn't tell them to do.

for my background to stay as is, i put the command into the .xsession file.

``
setxkbmap tr
``

another self explanatory command. my physical keyboard is türkçe so i want to be able to type ü when i hit the "ü" key. this command tells the system my keyboard has "ü" instead of "]".

``
dwm
``

heh, guess what this command does. 

that is it, really. ~~i will put battery % and time on the top bar sometime as well.~~ Let's now look at the 4th line i didn't tell you about yet.

``
~/Downloads/bd/a.out &
``

This runs the program a.out (compiled from status.c) and then puts it in the background (with the "&" in the end) so that the terminal doesn't sit there drooling over itself waiting for a.out to return.

**What is this status.c you speak of?**

İ wanted to show battery and time on the top bar so i took a status bar code from the [dwm site.](https://dwm.suckless.org/dwmstatus/profil-dwmstatus-1.0.c)

the original code had cpu frequency, battery percentage and time.

the first thing i tried was to put the source code into usr/local/bin/dwm.

now there is one small problem with this action. That is not a directory. inside /usr/local/bin/ is the executable of my window manager, and by 
copying some code directly into it i desdroyed my window manager. I couldn't start my default session or my dwm session since both of them tried to run this file (which was no longer an executable but a text file now), but luckily there was
a default xfce session. through that session i recompiled my dwm and put it back where it is supposed to be.

then i realized that *copying the source code into some directory wasn't the way to go.* i compiled and ran the status.c file, and
 it worked! 
 
 kind of. It properly gave me the error "energy_now cannot be read". I looked at the code and saw that it gives this error when it cannot reach the /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/energy_now file to read whatever it wanted to read from there.
 
 So i went over there to see what was in that directory and welp, the problem was simple. My battery was named BAT1 and not BAT0. i changed tat and now my program should work right?

lol.

So my next problem was the inexistence of files energy_now and energy_full. The original code reads these values, and munchs them into a number between0 and 100 in some magical way so that it shows my battery percentage.

To my luck, there was a file called ``capacity`` under my /BAT1 directory which held the current battery percentage. i removed the calculation line, i made it so the code would only read 1 file, and it would return whatever it gets from there.

```
float getbattery() {
	FILE *fd;
	int energy_now;

	fd = fopen("/sys/class/power_supply/BAT1/capacity", "r");
	if(fd == NULL) {
		fprintf(stderr, "Error opening energy_now.\n");
		return -1;
	}
	fscanf(fd, "%d", &energy_now);
	fclose(fd);

	return (float)energy_now;
}
```

here is what my getbattery function became.

After that i commented the whole getfreq function and deleted parts of code that referred it. Also removed the part of code that attempted to print cpu information.

``
	snprintf(status, 200, " %d%% | %s", bat0, datetime);
``

here is the print line after the modification.

then i compiled status.c and added ``~/Downloads/bd/a.out &`` to .xsession file. (& is there so that it starts the infinite process and moves to next line of .xsession)

Works all fine for now.

**technical hacky wacky to a side**

after using dwm for a couple of weeks and i can say it really feels nice. I've gotten used to the navigation and shortcuts of things. Im sure there is still quality of life improvements to be done, such as removing this tiny little bar i have on the far right of my terminals.

I still sometimes have trouble with wifi but that's another day's work.

