---
layout: post
title: Captains journal, day 2
---

so i managed to get the blog thing running through jekyll. what i did was simply snATCHed the repository from
barry clark, and started adding my posts. 

here is a link, because, why not: https://github.com/barryclark/jekyll-now 

so far one of my biggest frustrations with debian is that it feels veRy fragile. kind of like a horse made out of 
chopsticks, it works except it collapses when you touch it.

i get a hORDE of errors everytime i boot my pc. some of them look like this:
```
[drm:radeon_pci_probe [radeon]] *ERROR* radeon kernel modesetting for R600 or later requires firmware-amd-graphics.
rtl8723be 0000:02:00.0: firmware: failed to load rtlwifi/rtl8723befw.bin
bluetooth hci0: firmware: failed to load rtl_bt/rtl8723b_config.bin 
rcu_sched self-detected stall on CPU
```

so the first thing i want to try and fix is definitely the wifi thing. god have mercy upon my poor soul. 

oh also, my pc's clock is exactly 7 hours off. should get my hands on that before i get used to thinking of time as X+7 ... 


the most magicky thing i did so far was to set the commands
```
amixer set Master 2%+
amixer set Master 2%-
```
to my volume up and down keys. it took like 2 minutes. much wow. such hacker.

whining about debian to a side it took an unnecessary amount of effort to get the blog up and running. it is definitely not 
perfect or final, but hey, it works? I'll prettify it further sometime.

i also want to read some markdown documentation. [   :)   ]

it has been a very messy day 2 journal, i know. its because im writing this days after the actual day 2. 

this is more of a oh-shit-what-day-is-it journal entry. also some very toasty frens told me to name the posts based on 
what is actually inside them. so obvious yet so elegant.

whatever, see you around or something.
