---
layout: post
title: Hello
---

this will (hopefully) be a journal about my journey after giving up windows for good. It is day 1 right now, about 5>hours
of fiddling around.

i will write about the problems i come across, what i tried to fix them. i will write about my experiences on linux; what 
i did, what i saw, what i felt and so on. i will sometimes write just unrelated thoughts. I want to make a blog out of this.

..since i don't know how, this will temporarily sit on my github until i manage to build a blog. 
(did someone say django tutorials)

before anything i want to have a short introductory section.

so i just desdroyed my windows 10, and threw myself onto debian.
why did i do this anyway?

well, there are a couple of reasons:

a. i've been learning about what is what.

i still can't say i know everything there is to know BUT
i roughly know what an OS is. linux seems to be a popular choice for those that like to get their hands dirty.
also for developers of all sorts. i have heard why it is that way but i haven't lived it myself yet.

well.
here we go i guess.

b. windows was annoying.
it was really slow. Not that debian is sO MUch faster, (i don't have enough data to compare them-yet) but it definitely 
boots faster. like, a lot faster.
i hated the interface. i have had enough. after windows xp they only went downhill.
auto updates that you cant disable are a thing
i had no idea what the fuck was going on behind the scenes of my computer. Not that i know how debian works, but i came 
here to learn.

c. as a computer engineering (more like computer science) i had to do it.

i think i should know these things. why? um uhhhhh idk.
im sure y'all know all that jibber jabber about why linux is a must and stuff. no need to retype them here and now (im lazy
and not very familiar to the topic) but i've heard them enough times that i want to try it for myself.
plus, a lot of my school work required me to run a virtual machine with linux inside. it only made sense to remove the middleman.

d. computer things are cool.

i've witnessed some magicks being carried out by a very much delicious hacker/eee student and it looks cool. it looks painful.
it looks fun. i want to be able to do all those magicky things.
you see the sentences above? that is what windows does to us. a hooman's regular computing looks magicky to me.

e. i've always been a big fan of computers

and i think it is time that i leave my comfort zone of games and google chrome to explore and learn.
belki buna özenmece de diyebilirsiniz ama insan insana özenir ne yapalim.

f. its a social thing

this is also related to being a ceng student, but people around me are also interested in this stuff. our social environments
tend to affect us.

g. why not?

i've always expected that at some point in my life i'd be knowledgeable and fluent with this stuff. for that i need
 to learn. why not start now? why postpone?
i am sure jumping into a world of mysteries and magicks would be a fun adventure. i want to go for it.

so that should be enough babbling. lets start shall we?
