---
layout: post
title: Day 3, Downloading a new graphics card
---

So i fixed two majors problems, and they only took about 2 hours.
The reason it took this long is because i paused to shop for some absolutely **Y U M M Y** socks. No regrets.

well, i also had to figure out how to add a new source to my aptitude's source list so it could find and download the package.

So, problem 1: wifi didn't work.

remember that error about rtlwifi/rtl8723befw.bin not loading? well a bit of googling around to find the correct package led me
 to [this page.](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/229221/rtlwifi-rtl8723befw-bin-wireless-stop-working-then-laptop-needs-to-reboot-to)
 
 The page had the solution to my problem, straight forward. download the missing package, and copy it where it needs to be. For 
 this one i actually clicked a link on the web page to download the package and then manually put it where it needed to be.
 
``
$ sudo mkdir /lib/firmware/rtlwifi/

$ sudo cp rtl8723befw.bin /lib/firmware/rtlwifi/
``

the lines above and a reboot to follow up fixed the wifi thing. i didn't even bother with the configuration commands in
the link i gave above.

second problem wasn't as quick. but it was a smooth process nevertheless.

**HOW DO DOWNLOAD A GRAPHICS CARD???**

So for my amd radeon m340 (or 440 im not sure) to work properly it needs a package called firmware-amd-graphics. Debian doesn't
have that pack built in, so i had to find and install it.

the first command i tried was this:
`
apt install firmware-and-graphics
`

this command has 2 problems:

1. i didnt use `sudo` which i should have because, well, i'm installing a new package to my system. (lots of fancy words in
this sentence woooo)

2. my source list for `apt` (the package manager, see: https://wiki.debian.org/Apt#What_is_APT.3F ) didn't have a source for 
firmware-and-graphics. So when i attempted to install it apt didn't know what package i wanted, or where it was.

**how hooman do a fix?**

well, we go ahead and put a source link to our source.list for apt, so it knows what im trying to install, and where it
can be downloaded. for where i found the correct source link see: https://packages.debian.org/stretch/firmware-amd-graphics

head over to a terminal and kick your text editor.

`
sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list
`

*don't forget the sudo this time...*

we now have our source list in front of us. go ahead and paste the link of your choosing there. the one 
i used was `deb http://ftp.de.debian.org/debian stretch main non-free `

After adding that to our file we save and quit with ctrl + O and ctrl + X (or was it the other way around?)

now that we have the link in our sources list we can start the install right? nope, because apt doesn't know the source
 list is updated. we first tell it to do so, and then start the install:
 
 `
 sudo apt update
 sudo apt install firmware-amd-graphics
 `
 wait for the process to finish and voilà! You just downloaded a functioning graphics card. restart teh pc and you're golden.
 
 After all the messing around i do feel that my computer is slightly more willing to *work do.*
 
 I went ahead and did a `sudo dmesg` to see how we are doing. dmesg shows you the kernel output (where i've been locating
 all these errors in the first place) and the wifi & graphic card errors were gone (yaayyy).
 
 even the `self-detected stall on cpu` error was gone.
 
 There was only 2 left, which i expected to see anyway. One about my bluetooth package not being installed (which i don't care 
 about) and another similar error which is again a missing package but i am not sure what package it is. Probably the sd
 card reader driver or something? As you can tell i don't care about that one either.
 
 So what is next?
 
 Well a wise duck once said "as we all know linux is learned when trying to install a different GUI". So im gonna go
 ahead and have a go at that. Not suree when, but sometime soon.
 
 Another thing i could look for is some sound drivers maybe, because my speakers *whizzzzle.* and it gets very
 annoying very fast.
 
 So that was that. See ya folks, take care, buy yourselves some colorful socks.
 
*editing this for the site: i NEED a markdown tutorial asap.*

edit2: eT et Et e t allam beN azad eT

i just can't get markdown to do what i want. the site will look very ugly for a while.
